README.md, before:

﻿# Lenscribe

A Python project for computer vision and vision-language tasks using VGG16 and BLIP models.

## Overview

Lenscribe is designed to work with pre-trained models for various computer vision and vision-language understanding tasks. The project leverages:

- **VGG16**: A deep convolutional neural network for image classification and feature extraction
- **BLIP**: Bootstrapping Language-Image Pre-training for vision-language understanding tasks

## Project Structure

`
Lenscribe/
â”œâ”€â”€ data/                   # Data storage and processing
â”œâ”€â”€ models/                 # Model checkpoints and saved models
â”œâ”€â”€ notebooks/              # Jupyter notebooks for experimentation
â”œâ”€â”€ src/                    # Source code modules
â”œâ”€â”€ tests/                  # Unit tests
â”œâ”€â”€ config/                 # Configuration files
â”œâ”€â”€ docs/                   # Documentation
â”œâ”€â”€ scripts/                # Utility scripts
â”œâ”€â”€ requirements.txt        # Python dependencies
â”œâ”€â”€ .gitignore             # Git ignore rules
â””â”€â”€ README.md              # This file
`

## Features

- **VGG16 Integration**: Pre-trained VGG16 model for image classification and feature extraction
- **BLIP Integration**: Vision-language model for image captioning, visual question answering, and more
- **Modular Design**: Clean, organized code structure for easy extension
- **Comprehensive Testing**: Unit tests for all major components
- **Documentation**: Detailed documentation and examples

## Installation

1. Clone the repository:
`ash
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/Lenscribe.git
cd Lenscribe
`

2. Create a virtual environment:
`ash
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: venv\Scripts\activate
`

3. Install dependencies:
`ash
pip install -r requirements.txt
`

## Usage

### VGG16 Image Classification

`python
from src.models.vgg16_classifier import VGG16Classifier

# Initialize the classifier
classifier = VGG16Classifier()

# Classify an image
predictions = classifier.predict('path/to/image.jpg')
print(predictions)
`

### BLIP Vision-Language Tasks

`python
from src.models.blip_processor import BLIPProcessor

# Initialize the processor
processor = BLIPProcessor()

# Generate image caption
caption = processor.generate_caption('path/to/image.jpg')
print(caption)

# Answer questions about an image
answer = processor.answer_question('path/to/image.jpg', 'What is in this image?')
print(answer)
`

## Development

### Running Tests

`ash
pytest tests/
`

### Code Formatting

`ash
black src/ tests/
flake8 src/ tests/
`

### Jupyter Notebooks

Start Jupyter Lab for interactive development:

`ash
jupyter lab
`

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch (git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature)
3. Commit your changes (git commit -m 'Add some amazing feature')
4. Push to the branch (git push origin feature/amazing-feature)
5. Open a Pull Request

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Acknowledgments

- VGG16 model from the original paper: "Very Deep Convolutional Networks for Large-Scale Image Recognition"
- BLIP model from Salesforce Research: "BLIP: Bootstrapping Language-Image Pre-training for Unified Vision-Language Understanding and Generation"
- Various open-source libraries and the Python community

Commit message:

Enhance README and installation script for voice processing integration. Updated README to include voice synthesis capabilities with emotion control and voice cloning. Improved installation script output messages for better clarity on dependency status.

README.md, after:

﻿# Lenscribe

A Python project for computer vision and vision-language tasks using VGG16 and BLIP models.

## Overview

Lenscribe is designed to work with pre-trained models for various computer vision, vision-language understanding, and voice synthesis tasks. The project leverages:

- **VGG16**: A deep convolutional neural network for image classification and feature extraction
- **BLIP**: Bootstrapping Language-Image Pre-training for vision-language understanding tasks
- **XTTS-v2**: Advanced text-to-speech with emotion control and voice cloning capabilities

## Project Structure

`
Lenscribe/
â”œâ”€â”€ data/                   # Data storage and processing
â”œâ”€â”€ models/                 # Model checkpoints and saved models
â”œâ”€â”€ notebooks/              # Jupyter notebooks for experimentation
â”œâ”€â”€ src/                    # Source code modules
â”œâ”€â”€ tests/                  # Unit tests
â”œâ”€â”€ config/                 # Configuration files
â”œâ”€â”€ docs/                   # Documentation
â”œâ”€â”€ scripts/                # Utility scripts
â”œâ”€â”€ requirements.txt        # Python dependencies
â”œâ”€â”€ .gitignore             # Git ignore rules
â””â”€â”€ README.md              # This file
`

## Features

- **VGG16 Integration**: Pre-trained VGG16 model for image classification and feature extraction
- **BLIP Integration**: Vision-language model for image captioning, visual question answering, and more
- **Voice Synthesis**: Advanced text-to-speech with emotion control and voice cloning
- **Emotion Control**: Generate speech with different emotions (happy, sad, angry, etc.)
- **Voice Cloning**: Clone voices from reference audio with emotion control
- **Modular Design**: Clean, organized code structure for easy extension
- **Comprehensive Testing**: Unit tests for all major components
- **Documentation**: Detailed documentation and examples

## Installation

1. Clone the repository:
`ash
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/Lenscribe.git
cd Lenscribe
`

2. Create a virtual environment:
`ash
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: venv\Scripts\activate
`

3. Install dependencies:
`ash
pip install -r requirements.txt
`

## Usage

### VGG16 Image Classification

`python
from src.models.vgg16_classifier import VGG16Classifier

# Initialize the classifier
classifier = VGG16Classifier()

# Classify an image
predictions = classifier.predict('path/to/image.jpg')
print(predictions)
`

### BLIP Vision-Language Tasks

`python
from src.models.blip_processor import BLIPProcessor

# Initialize the processor
processor = BLIPProcessor()

# Generate image caption
caption = processor.generate_caption('path/to/image.jpg')
print(caption)

# Answer questions about an image
answer = processor.answer_question('path/to/image.jpg', 'What is in this image?')
print(answer)
`

### Voice Synthesis with Emotion Control

`python
from src.models.voice_processor import VoiceProcessor

# Initialize voice processor
voice = VoiceProcessor()

# Synthesize speech with emotion
voice.synthesize_with_emotion(
    text="Hello, this is a happy voice!",
    emotion="happy",
    output_path="happy_voice.wav"
)

# Clone voice with emotion
voice.clone_voice_with_emotion(
    text="This is my cloned voice.",
    reference_audio="path/to/reference.wav",
    emotion="sad",
    output_path="cloned_sad_voice.wav"
)
`

## Development

### Running Tests

`ash
pytest tests/
`

### Code Formatting

`ash
black src/ tests/
flake8 src/ tests/
`

### Jupyter Notebooks

Start Jupyter Lab for interactive development:

`ash
jupyter lab
`

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch (git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature)
3. Commit your changes (git commit -m 'Add some amazing feature')
4. Push to the branch (git push origin feature/amazing-feature)
5. Open a Pull Request

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Acknowledgments

- VGG16 model from the original paper: "Very Deep Convolutional Networks for Large-Scale Image Recognition"
- BLIP model from Salesforce Research: "BLIP: Bootstrapping Language-Image Pre-training for Unified Vision-Language Understanding and Generation"
- Various open-source libraries and the Python community
